# BCI_Project_2019_20

The brain computer interface is a way of communication between the human brain and different appliances. BCI helps in the restoration of natural moments of the human body with respect to the neural signals in an artificial manner. It is an artificial system that bypasses the body’s normal efficient pathways, which are the neuromuscular output channels.

Our brains are made up of a hundred billion nerve cells called neurons. When neurons interact through a chemical reaction, they naturally emit a measurable, electrical impulse. Electroencephalography or EEG is the process of observing brainwaves through these pulses.
Brainsense measures your brainwaves and translates it into meaningful data to help you make the most of your cognitive performance. The Brainwear can measure, track and help you improve your Attention, Focus, Meditation, Eye blink , and reduce Stress levels. With the free mobile app (Android/iOS) available with the Brainsense, you’ll get a much better idea of your daily productivity profile. When you're paying attention, the time of day and how long you can pay attention for, your interest levels, your bursts of focus. How well you can relax, your stress levels. Research has shown that when you are made aware of all of these indicators, people are better informed and empowered to make decisions to optimize and improve their cognitive fitness and performance.

Type    Frequency range    Mental states and conditions

Delta   0.1 Hz to 3 Hz     Deep, dreamless sleep, non-REM sleep, unconscious

Theta   4 Hz to 7 Hz       Intuitive, creative, recall, fantasy, imaginary, dream

Alpha   8 Hz to 12 Hz      Relaxed, but not drowsy, tranquil, conscious

Low Beta 12 Hz to 15 Hz    Formerly SMR, relaxed yet focused, integrated

Midrange Beta 16 Hz to 20 Hz Thinking, aware of self & surroundings

High Beta     21 Hz to 30 Hz Alertness, agitation

These signals generated by brain are received by the brain sensor and will be divided into packets. The packet data is then transmitted through a wireless medium (such as Bluetooth or WIFI). The wave measuring unit will receive the brain wave raw data and will convert it into signal using MATLAB GUI platform and the instructions will then be sent to the automation unit to automate different devices. Operation of Devices w.r.t. human brain signals is based on changes in the muscle movement with blinking.

I.	Hardware Requirements: 

a.	Laptop/Desktop with minimum 4GB RAM and Internet Connectivity. 

b.	Bluetooth module HC-05

c.	Arduino Mega/UNO / ARM Processor (IPC 2148)

d.	‘Brainsense’ Band / Mindwave Mobile - TGAM Brainwave Sensor and Dry Electrodes.

e.	Relays

f.	Jumpers and other cables


II.	Software Requirements: 

a.	MATLAB 2013b

b.	Embedded C Compiler

NOTE:
Brainsense works on Baud_Rate - 9600
Matlab works on Baud_Rate - 115200
